we begin in Gaza City this hour where
the Israeli military has killed at least
104 Palestinians nearly 700 people have
also been injured dozens of them in
critical condition Thursday's attack has
been described as a massacre of
civilians hundreds of starving
Palestinians had gathered to collect
food Aid when they were attacked
Israel's Army says its soldiers were
forced to open fire because they felt
threatened by the crowds Michael Apple
explains how it all
unfolded in the early hours of the
morning thousands of people flocked to
alrashed Road Southwest of Gaza City
desperate for Aid aerial footage
released by the Israeli military shows
crowds gathering around what looks like
several Aid
trucks by the time the sun rose the
extent of what happened was clear the
dead and the dying lying side by side
gunned down by Israeli fire
[Music]
the Israelis just opened random Fire on
us as if it was a trap once we approach
the a trucks the Israeli tanks and
warplanes started firing on us if this
continues like this we do not want any
Aid delivered at all every Convoy coming
means another
Massacre instead of Aid they've come
away with the
dead by Donkey cot car and makeshift
stretches
the wounded are taken to nearby
hospitals all of which are overwhelmed
and barely
functioning this is exactly what we have
been warning about the hospital being
out of service amid this massive influx
of patients we are operating on
batteries most of our victims are in
critical condition which requires urgent
surgical intervention but the hospital
is without operating rooms I stand
helpless we are simply administering
first aid treatment only the Israeli
military says its forces opened fire
when troops felt threatened while a
spokesperson for the Israeli government
says Palestinian drivers plowed into the
crowds when the trucks were overwhelmed
but neither has provided
evidence one of the survivors says
bodies are still lying on the streets
where they were gunned
[Music]
down as soon as the eight trucks entered
the Israelis started shelling and
shooting everyone who is on the road
they opened fire randomly killing
innocent men and women in Cold Blood
there was gunfire snipers shooting tanks
shelling and
drones Palestinians are left with few
options starve to death slowly or risk
losing their lives collecting Aid Mike
lappel El
jazer as some of the people injured in
the attack were taken to Al shifa
Hospital in Gaza City this is the scene
that staff member Dr jadala Al sha
described to
us there are really no words to describe
the situation it reminds us of the dark
scenes from the Baptist Hospital 4
months ago where 500 people were killed
in one Israeli a strike since the early
hours of the morning the hospital has
been flooded with dozens of dead bodies
and hundreds of injured the majority of
the victims suffered gunshot wounds and
shrapnel in the head and upper parts of
their bodies they were hit by Direct
artillery shelling drone missiles and
gunfire all our operation rooms are full
and all medical staff have been deployed
above all we ran out of medical supplies
and fuel necessary to operate the
hospital we hope we will be able to
provide any life-saving procedures to
those victims all victims are in
critical condition they're lying on the
floor We Stand helpless amid the sharp
shortage of supplies and
staff at tabom is in Rafa Southern aaza
Forest tar you've been gathering
information on this along with our alaz
team what more can you tell us about
this yes it was a very uh shocking and
distressing event today where uh
thousands of Palestinians and who are
completely desperate in noring Gaza have
been waiting as usual every day for more
flow of the humanitarian supplies and
humanitarian trucks to get to the parts
of Taza now the people had been multiply
targeted by the Israeli forces in
previous occasions but today it's
considered to be one of the bloodiest
attacks where we have been seeing and
hearing more shocking news about more
than uh 100 Palestinians being killed as
we have been seeing also videos emerging
from the location showing an intense
Israeli shooting against those people
who were gathering waiting for
humanitarian supplies the majority of
them did not manage to return back with
anything they returned empty-handed as
those people are completely have nothing
to Sur Rive on the light of the ongoing
Israeli bombardment that OS a
significant restriction on Aid delivery
but at the same time the the wfp had
suspended its operations and Aid
deliveries to the north for the same
reasons collapse in security and this is
what Palestinians today have been
witnessing they were completely disarmed
they have exposed to the Israeli fire
and some of them they just wanted to
give a humanitarian assistance to return
back to their families with something in
their hand defeat them and it's
specifically that within this em number
of casualties and people being killed it
was another load on the capacity of
hospitals that are severely and barely
operating right now just only providing
primitive care there and this is
absolutely terrifying for them TK thank
you very much for that reporting I know
you and the rest of our Al Shazer team
in Gaza working hard to try and gather
as much information as we can about
today's pre-dawn attack on these uh
these Palestinians who are lining up for
Aid in in Northern Gaza thank you very
much T let's bring in Zayn basravi Zayn
you're in rala in the occupied West Bank
so we're trying to build as complete of
a picture as we can about what happened
this morning what are you learning on
your
end well the aerial footage that the
Israeli military has released appears to
show massive crowds swarming the few Aid
trucks that are able to deliver any kind
of help to the eged population of Gaza
the Israelis have put it out as a
potentially reasonable excuse for why
they felt threatened the crowds were
chaotic and out of control they felt
they had to open fire to protect their
soldiers but instead of being a
reasonable excuse what Palestinians are
seeing is really an indictment of
Israeli choices inside Gaza the chaos
has stemmed from Israel blocking any
sort of reasonable International Aid
response blocking groups making it more
difficult for un bodies to carry out
their work this chaos is a result of
what they have done for the past 5
months which is dismantle a society
dismantle uh Services Urban centers in a
land area half the size of New York
twice the size of Washington DC to that
point the Biden Administration the US
White House has actually asked the
Israelis to stop targeting members of
the Hamas run civilian police Force who
escort these a trucks inside Gaza uh
because they were warning of a quote
total breakdown of Law and Order and
that is largely what we're seeing here
and to suggest that the Israelis had no
choice they were trying to protect
themselves Palestinians say adds insult
to injury and just to get a sense of how
bad the situation is 576,000 people in
Gaza are near famine these are un
statistics 2.3 million people are
relying on woefully inadequate food Aid
and Oxfam has just put out a statement
saying it is appalled by the reports of
killing people in Gaza waiting for food
Aid they say Israel's actions were
deliberate targeting civilians and a
gross violation of international
humanitarian law and Humanity Zay BVI
reporting from occupied uh from rala I
beg your pardon thank you very much
Zane and Bernard Smith is in occupied
East Jerusalem Bernard how does Israel
explain what happened this
morning
so seral Israel's military has had a
briefing uh not too long ago trying to
uh elaborate on what they believe what
they say happened in Gaza they say this
incident happened at around wad Gaza
which is this W this river that Israel
has used to separate the North of Gaza
from the south and there's a checkpoint
there and they say that these a trucks
were clearing this checkpoint when they
were surrounded by a large Crow crowd of
people at that stage the Israeli
military said they didn't fire anybody
anybody who was killed was killed in the
crush or even run over by vehicles and
then the military says there was a
second incident where once those
Vehicles had gone further north people
left behind approached the Israeli
military which they say was in a
threatening Manner and that is when the
Israelis opened fire now if you ask our
colleagues in Gaza they will say well
people are killed every day getting Aid
by killed by the Israelis every day when
they're trying to get aid but the reason
there's so much Focus today is because
of the large numbers of people killed
but it is normal it is standard in this
war that Palestinians are killed when
they go and try and get Aid all right
Berard thank you very much